Add GitHub metrics tooling to shared tooling repo (#1)
mongodb/code-example-tooling: github-metrics/README.md

# Project Metrics Tooling

> This repo contains tooling to enable us to programmatically keep track of various project metrics.
> 
> At the moment, it only contains a PoC for a simple pipeline to get metrics out of GitHub and into MongoDB Atlas. In the
> future, we can move this into the `mongodb` org and add tooling for our various projects.

Reviewer: should we add a repo-level README too?

```suggestion
This directory contains tooling to enable us to track various GitHub project metrics programmatically.

Currently, it contains a PoC for a simple pipeline to pull metrics from GitHub into MongoDB Atlas. 

Planned future work: 

- Set up a server to pull metrics every 14 days 
- Add logic to work with pulled metrics once available in the test repo
- Set up Atlas Charts to visualize the data
```

## GitHub Repo Metrics

### Get Metrics from GitHub

This is a simple PoC that uses [octokit](https://github.com/octokit/octokit.js) to get the following data out of GitHub
for a given repository over a trailing 14 day period:

- Views
- Unique Views
- Stars
- Watchers
- Forks

The intent is to also get the following maintenance-related stats for a given repository over a trailing 14 day period:

- Code frequency
- Commit count

However, at present, GitHub does not have any data cached for the test repo, so I'll iterate on this in a future version.

This code is in the `get-github-metrics.js` file.

> **Note**: The GitHub API does not provide the option to specify a date range for these metrics. The API _only_ provides
> this data for the trailing 14 day period, fixed. In the future, we'll want to set up a server to run this job regularly
> since we cannot specify a date range.

> ### Write metrics to Atlas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Write Metrics to Atlas
```

Author: Why title case? It seems unnecessarily formal to me for a repo devoted to our tooling.

Reviewer: to match the previous H3's Title Case but I guess it should have been the other way around, since I agree (and generally prefer informal)

Author: Hah, I did not notice that! Updating the other headings, except the H1, which actually _should_ be a title. 👍

This PoC uses the [MongoDB Node.js Driver](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/node/current/) to write the data to the
**Developer Docs** -> **Project Metrics** project in Atlas.

This code is in the `write-to-db.js` file.

In the future, we can set up Charts to visualize this data and share it with stakeholders.

> ### Run the tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run the Tool
```

#### Prerequisites

To run the tool, you need:

**Atlas**:

- An Atlas Database User with write permissions for the **Developer Docs** -> **Project Metrics** project.
- A valid connection string for the cluster above.

Contact a member of the Developer Docs team to be added to this project and get the connection string.

**GitHub**:

- A [GitHub Personal Access Token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens)
  with `repo` permissions

For this project, as a MongoDB org member, you must also auth your PAT with SSO.

**System**:

- Node.js/npm installed

#### Steps

> ##### Create a `.env` file
> 
> Create a `.env` file that contains the following details:
> 
> ```
> ATLAS_CONNECTION_STRING="yourConnectionString"
> GITHUB_TOKEN="yourToken"
> ```
> 
> Replace the placeholder values with your connection string and GitHub token.
> 
> The `.env` file is in the `.gitignore`, so no worries about accidentally committing credentials.
> 
> ##### Install the dependencies
> 
> From the root of the directory, run the following command to install project dependencies:
> 
> ```
> npm install
> ```
> 
> ##### Run the utility
> 
> From the root of the directory, run the following command to run the utility:
> 
> ```
> node --env-file=.env index.js
> ```
> 
> You should see output similar to:
> 
> ```
> A document was inserted with the _id: 678197a0ffe1539ff213bd86
> ```

Reviewer: can we make these steps? the H5s are kind of annoying  (the suggested change looks borked because of the nested code blocks inside the suggestion)

```suggestion
1. **Set your environment variables.** 

   From the root of the directory, create a `.env` file that contains the following details:

   ```
   ATLAS_CONNECTION_STRING="yourConnectionString"
   GITHUB_TOKEN="yourToken"
   ```

   Replace the placeholder values with your connection string and GitHub token.

   > **NOTE:** The `.env` file is in the `.gitignore`, so no worries about accidentally committing credentials.

#. **Install the dependencies.**

   From the root of the directory, run the following command to install project dependencies:

   ```
   npm install
   ```

#. **Run the utility.**

   From the root of the directory, run the following command to run the utility:

   ```
   node --env-file=.env index.js
   ```

   You should see output similar to:

   ```
   A document was inserted with the _id: 678197a0ffe1539ff213bd86
   ```
```

- Stars
- Watchers
- Forks
- Top 10 referral sources

> - Top 10 paths/destinations in the repo

Reviewer: ooh interesting
